We can add our elements here.
What we're not able to do is delete them and that's the next step.
I want to take the next thing I want to implement here.
We got our flat list with all these goal items and it would be nice if we could tap such a goal item.
So such a list item.
And when we tap it we simply remove it from the list.
Now the good thing is we can uniquely identify every item because every item here has an I.D. so we
can use that I.D. for it and getting rid of the item.
The missing thing is that we can tap it now on our own component.
We can simply add on press or anything like that.
This will not work via console log.
Does that work here.
We'll not see that log as soon as I pressed the item.
So let me show this to you if you let this reload here and then we again learn React Native and I add
this and I tap this multiple times here I'm tapping this you don't see the output here and it makes
sense does a custom component and on press Wood now simply be a prop we pass to this component just
prop would be connected to this function but nothing is triggering that prop from inside the component
so we'll have to go into that component and make sure that this view is principle.
Now actually a view has various props that help us with listening to events.
If you type on your your idea if you're using Visual pseudocode should give you some auto completion
and you see there are quite a lot of events you can listen to.
For example on touch and actually helps us with listening when the user basically touches and is done
touching this.
The issue with that is dead on touch end and a couple of other listeners we got here are on a Q low
level.
We can set up very detailed listeners to various events here for example on touch and doesn't tell us
how long the user pressed is.
And if you ever need to find out if it was a long press or a short press you would have to manually
set a timer when the user starts touching those with on touch start wait for on touch end and then manually
decide if that was long enough or not.
It's typically not what you want to do though it's of course great that you have the full flexibility
of doing that but if you want these standards touch events like a long press well then this is not ideal
because you would have to do all the heavy lifting on your own.
You would have to write a lot of code to find out which kind of touch it was on your own.
The good thing is React Native has you covered.
There is a built in touchable component which you can import and touchable is a component you can wrap
around any ever a component you have.
So around any view or any text or whatever you have and it's not visible it doesn't render anything
you can see on the screen but it will wrap this and registered touch event on the child you wrap touchable
around and touchable then gives you finished touch events so more detailed touch events which were pre
configured for you know to be exact touchable like this can't be used as a component it acts more as
a parent class for week native because there are multiple specific versions of touchable which you don't
actually should use.
For example there is touchable opacity let's use touchable opacity instead of touchable because that
now really is a component you can use.
And now here you will see that if you type on you get a couple of high level touch events you can listen
to like on press or on long press.
And that's of course way more helpful.
Now here I can listen to you on press which means it's well a normal press event as we could listen
to on the button and when this is triggered what we can do of course we can execute any code we want.
And for example we could forward this to let's say props on delete.
So we call a function that was passed into this component on the on the lead prop.
We're not setting this prop right now but we're now calling something on this prop and now we can go
to the place to app J.S. where we use goal item and add the on delete prop instead of on press and on
the lead should not point at a function because we are expecting a function here in our goal item because
on press expects a function and we're simply forwarding what on delete points to Q1 press.
So on delete should point at a function and it is but only a function that prints does that work nonetheless.
That's at least good for testing.
So let's see if I learn react native and I add this and I tapped us here multiple times you see I get
this feedback this slight opacity of fact your up on pressing if I do this you see that here in the
log so Dad did work and you'll also see the effect of touchable opacity.
This actually gives us a visual feedback about our touch by changing the capacity of the element we
touched.
You can also control this opacity by setting the active opacity prop here on touchable opacity and setting
this to a number for example to dot eight.
And now this will be way less transparent for example if you press it.
So now I've learned React Native here and impressed this the opacity effect is way less strong as you
can see so you can configure this to your needs and with Dad you can not only add a nice effect but
of course all eyes will listen to depress effect no touchable opacity is not the only component you
can use though besides touchable opacity you also have touchable highlight so let's use touchable highlight
now instead to see how that behaves and the general idea is the same with touchable highlight.
You can also listen to press events so to these high level events these pre configured events but the
visual feedback will be a different one.
Here will not changed your passage of the rapt element but the background color.
So now I've learned React Native and I tap this.
You see now the background color changes to black and of course does here in this case is not the visual
effect we want now you can also configure active capacity there if you want.
You can configure which DeLay is assume for a long press you could have done it on taxable capacity
as well so you can configure that effect and you can simply play around with that to get a feeling for
how to use it.
Besides touch of opacity and touchable highlight you also have touchable native feedback and that only
works on Android and for now you don't know how to find out whether this runs on Android or not.
I'll show you how to determine which platform you're running on later.
For now let's use that and you won't be able to test is on the iPhone simulator but here on Android
if I now add this you will see that you get this ripple effect.
Now if you test us here and of course you can also configure this effect here with props you can set.
And as always the official docs are also a great place to go if you want to learn more about how to
configure this.
So having that ripple effect can be nice on Android too.
And last but not least there also is touchable without feedback and this does what the name suggests.
It allows you to register these events but it gives no visual feedback because sometimes you just want
to have something which you can tap but where you indeed don't want to give any feedback to the user.
So here I can tap this as much as I want.
The tap is registered and hence I see the output here.
But we get no visual feedback so these touchable components are really important and react native because
they allow you to attach the normal high level touch listeners like on press on long press ends on to
any component and react native and with Dad you can build your own touchable components your own buttons
your own links whatever you need.
Now here all go back to touchable opacity because I liked this opacity effect but really feel free to
pass the value here and play around with these different touchable effects and play around with the
different configurations you can apply there.
Obviously we'll heavily use touchable for all this and horror of course.
So we'll see them there plenty of times but this is also a great place for you to get started with these
components as a Z.
I'll go if touchable pass to here and now the next step is to make sure that we don't just lock something
to the console but that we actually delete the item which was pressed.